At this point.
File one is in your working area, staging area, local repository and GitHub remote repository.
You notice that you misspelled the word hello in that file and you want to fix it and you fix this line.
And you also added these two lines.
Git is better with GitHub and learn git and s to get a great job.
So you save this file and before you move this change to the staging area, you want to see the difference
between the files.
You do that by running git diff command.
Git diff command shows the difference between the files in your working area and staging area.
Let's dive deep to understand the output.
The first line shows that it is comparing the same file file one in two different places.
The second line shows the metadata and internal indexes that Git is using to run this compare command.
This line is not really relevant to understand the differences.
The three minuses denotes that a slash file one is the original file and three places denote that B
slash file.
One is the new file.
The actual difference is easy to understand.
The deleted lines are shown in red and added lines are shown in green.
As we can see, the line hello world from Git is removed and three new lines have been added to this
file.
This section shows the summary of changes.
This is divided into two area.
The minus denotes that this section is for the original file and plus determines that this section is
for the change file.
Please note that this minus one or plus one does not mean that one line has been deleted and one line
have been added.
The first number denotes that what's the line number that the change is from, and the second number
shows the number of lines impacted.
So for the original file, it shows that changes started from line one and since the old file only had
one line, it doesn't show minus one, comma one, but the new file has more than one line, so it shows
plus one.
As in the new file changes start at line number one and then starting from line number one.
Three lines have been impacted.
Since this file is small, you are only seeing this one section.
But if this file was a large one and you changed in multiple areas of the file, this section will replicate
with appropriate starting line number and number of lines impacted.
It is not always easy to use this command line to show the differences, but later on we want to use
some of the tools to see this.
Also, we will see how the differences is shown in GitHub, which is a little bit easier to understand.
Coming back to this file, we are happy with our changes, so I'm going to add this file to staging
area.
So if I run git diff again, there should be no differences because the same file now exists in both
working area and staging area.
As expected, there are no differences now to see the differences between the staging area and local
repository.
You run the command git diff dash dash staged.
We are happy with the differences so we are going to commit this file to local repository and when you
commit it also shows a summary that one file have been changed.
There have been three insertion and one deletion.
Now I'm going to add another file file to to the working area.
So I added this two lines and I save file two.
So let's add this file to staging area by running git add command.
And at this point we are going to run git diff does dash stage to see the differences between staging
area and local repository.
So there are no differences in file one.
So it doesn't show anything about file one here and it shows that it's comparing file two in two different
places, same things apply.
Only thing to note is this line minus minus minus means is denoting the original file slash dev slash
null means there are no original files.
It is a new file.
And then in the summary section -0 comma zero means the original file has no lines plus one comma two
means the new file changes start at line one and there are two lines of changes and the actual changes
are shown in these two green lines.
I'm going to commit this file and then we're going to push this to our remote repository.
To push the changes.
I'm going to click code, copy the HTTPS link, go back to my Visual Studio code and run, get push
and then dice replace link.
All right, changes are pushed.
Let's go back to our GitHub repository to see the changes visually.
I mean, my GitHub repository, if I refresh this page, the changes are propagated now to see the commits,
click this three commits icon and to see the differences related to a particular comment.
Click the actual commit and it shows the differences in file one with little bit easier to understand
format, but the same concepts apply.
The blue color shows the summary of changes.
Red is deleted lines and green is added line.
All right, folks, this is how you check the differences before you implement your code changes.
That's it for this one.
I'll see you guys and girls in the next lecture.